TITLE I--HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS

(Sec. 101) This bill amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) to terminate the Prevention and Public Health Fund, which provides for investment in prevention and public health programs to improve health and restrain the rate of growth in health care costs. Unobligated funds are rescinded.

(Sec. 102) Funding for community health centers is increased.

(Sec. 103) Certain funding for U.S. territories that establish health insurance exchanges is no longer available after 2017.

(Sec. 104) The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) may not collect fees or make payments under the transitional reinsurance program.

(Sec. 105) This bill makes appropriations for FY2016 and FY2017 for HHS to award grants to states to address substance abuse or to respond to urgent mental health needs.

TITLE II--FINANCE

(Sec. 201) This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to require individuals to pay back the full amount of advance payments in excess of their premium assistance tax credit. (Currently, there is a limit on the amount of excess an individual must pay back.)

(Sec. 202) Provisions relating to the premium assistance tax credit, reduced cost-sharing, and eligibility determinations for these subsidies are repealed on December 31, 2017.

(Sec. 203) The small employer health insurance tax credit does not apply after 2017. (This credit is for certain employers who make contributions toward employee health coverage purchased through a health insurance exchange.)

(Sec. 204) The penalty for individuals who do not maintain minimum essential health care coverage is eliminated.

(Sec. 205) Large employers are no longer required to make shared responsibility payments.

(Sec. 206) For one year, this bill restricts the availability of federal funding to a state for payments to an entity (e.g., Planned Parenthood Federation of America) that:

 is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization; is an essential community provider primarily engaged in family planning services and reproductive health; provides for abortions other than abortions in cases of rape or incest, or where a physical condition endangers a woman's life unless an abortion is performed; and received a total of more than $350 million under Medicaid in FY2014, including payments to affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, or clinics. (Sec. 207) This bill amends part A (General Provisions) of title XI of the Social Security Act (SSAct) to require the additional payments to U.S. territories for Medicaid under the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 to be made by the end of FY2017 instead of the end of FY2019.

This bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the SSAct to end the expansion of Medicaid under PPACA on December 31, 2017.

After 2017, hospitals may no longer elect to provide Medicaid services to individuals during a presumptive eligibility period.

States must maintain Medicaid eligibility standards for individuals under 19 years old through FY2017 instead of through FY2019.

The federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP, the federal matching rate for Medicaid expenditures) for U.S. territories is 50% after 2017 (currently, the FMAP is 55%).

The increased FMAP for childless adults and home and community-based attendant services under PPACA ends December 31, 2017.

After 2017, states may no longer elect to provide certain individuals with a presumptive eligibility period for Medicaid.

Medicaid benchmark plans are no longer required to provide minimum essential health benefits after 2017.

After 2017, states are no longer required to operate a website for Medicaid enrollment that is linked to the state's health benefit exchange and Children's Health Insurance program (CHIP).

(Sec. 208) Medicaid allotments for disproportionate share hospitals are increased.

(Sec. 209) The excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health coverage (popularly known as the "Cadillac tax") does not apply after 2017.

(Sec. 210) Health savings accounts (HSAs), Archer medical savings accounts (MSAs), health flexible spending arrangements (HFSAs), and health reimbursement arrangements may be used to pay for over-the-counter medications.

(Sec. 211) This bill lowers the tax on distributions from HSAs and Archer MSAs that are not used for medical expenses.

(Sec. 212) Salary reduction contributions to an HFSA under a cafeteria plan are no longer limited.

(Sec. 213) The annual fee on manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs is eliminated.

(Sec. 214) The excise tax on medical devices is eliminated.

(Sec. 215) The annual fee on health insurers is eliminated.

(Sec. 216) Medical costs are allowed as a tax deduction regardless of whether the costs are taken into account when determining the amount of the subsidy for an employer-sponsored retiree prescription drug plan under Medicare part D (Voluntary Prescription Drug Benefit Program).

(Sec. 217) A tax deduction is allowed for medical expenses in excess of 7.5% (currently, 10%) of adjusted gross income.

(Sec. 218) The additional Medicare tax on income above a certain threshold is eliminated.

(Sec. 219) The indoor tanning services tax is eliminated.

(Sec. 220) The net investment income tax is eliminated.

(Sec. 221) A health insurer is allowed a tax deduction for the full amount of an employee's compensation. (Currently, there is a limit on the amount of an employee's compensation that a health insurer may deduct.)

(Sec. 222) Provisions relating to the economic substance doctrine are repealed. (The economic substance doctrine treats a transaction as having economic substance if it has a purpose other than reducing income taxes. Currently, there are penalties for claiming tax benefits for transactions without economic substance.)

(Sec. 223) Funds are transferred from the Department of the Treasury to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund.