Highlights: 

The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 provides FY2016 appropriations for the Department of Transportation (DOT), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and several related agencies.

The bill includes both discretionary and mandatory funding. The HUD budget is primarily discretionary spending, and most of the DOT budget is mandatory spending, in the form of contract authority from the Highway Trust Fund (HTF).

The bill increases overall funding for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies above FY2015 levels. Compared to FY2015 levels, the bill decreases funding for DOT and increases funding for HUD.

Within the DOT budget, the bill:

 increases funding for the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, and the Maritime Administration; decreases funding for the Federal Transit Administration and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; and funds the Federal Aid Highway Program and National Infrastructure Investments (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery or TIGER grants) at the FY2015 level. Within the HUD budget, the bill:

 increases funding for the Tenant-Based Rental Assistance and Project-Based Rental Assistance accounts that fund the low-income housing programs under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937; decreases funding for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) formula program and the HOME Investment Partnerships Program. For Public Housing, the bill increases funding for the Public Housing Operating Fund and decreases funding for both the Public Housing Capital Fund and Choice Neighborhoods compared to FY2015 levels.

The bill decreases funding for the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation.

Also included in the bill are provisions that would:

 affect limits on truck size and weight, restrict enforcement of regulations for commercial truck drivers' rest, limit the use of funds to increase minimum insurance requirements for truckers and bus drivers, and prohibit the use of funds for a proposed rule requiring airlines to display ancillary fees in ticket prices. Full Summary: 

Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 

Provides FY2016 appropriations for the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and several related agencies.

Department of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2016 

Provides FY2016 appropriations for the Department of Transportation (DOT).

TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Provides appropriations for the Office of the Secretary, including:

 Salaries and Expenses; Research and Technology; National Infrastructure Investments (also known as TIGER grants); Financial Management Capital; Cyber Security Initiatives; the Office of Civil Rights; Transportation Planning, Research, and Development; an Interagency Infrastructure Permitting Improvement Center; the Working Capital Fund; the Minority Business Resource Center Program; Minority Business Outreach; and Payments to Air Carriers. (Sec. 101) Prohibits DOT from approving assessments or reimbursable agreements pertaining to funds appropriated to the modal administrations in this bill except for activities underway on the date of enactment, unless the reprogramming process has been completed.

(Sec.102) Permits DOT to engage in activities with states and state legislators to consider proposals to reduce motorcycle fatalities.

(Sec. 103) Permits DOT to use the Working Capital Fund to provide transit benefits to federal employees.

(Sec. 104) Requires DOT to: (1) post on its website the schedule and agenda for all meetings of the Credit Council, and (2) require the Credit Council to record the decisions and actions of each meeting.

(Sec. 105) Prohibits DOT from finalizing or implementing specified sections of a proposed rule relating to Transparency of Airline Ancillary Fees and Other Consumer Protection Issues.

Provides appropriations to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for: Operations; Facilities and Equipment; Research, Engineering, and Development; and Grants-In-Aid For Airports.

Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill for: new applicants for the second career training program, new unauthorized user fees, or aeronautical charting and cartography activities through the Working Capital Fund.

Permits funds received from specified public, private, and foreign sources for expenses incurred to be credited to the appropriation.

Requires DOT to submit to Congress a five-year capital investment plan for the FAA.

Permits funds to be used for installation and commissioning or runway incursion prevention devices and systems.

(Sec. 110) Limit technical staff years under the federally funded research and development center contract between the FAA and the Center for Advanced Aviation System Development.

(Sec. 111) Prohibits the FAA from requiring airport sponsors to provide the agency without cost building construction, maintenance, utilities and expenses, or space in sponsor-owned buildings for air traffic control, air navigation, or weather reporting, subject to specified exceptions.

(Sec. 112) Permits the FAA to reimburse amounts made available from certain fees to carry out the Essential Air Service (EAS) program, which ensures that small communities have a minimum level of air service.

(Sec. 113) Permits amounts collected by the FAA for providing technical assistance to foreign aviation authorities to be credited to the Operations account.

(Sec. 114) Prohibits the FAA from paying Sunday premium pay except if an individual worked on a Sunday.

(Sec. 115) Prohibits the FAA from using funds provided by this bill to purchase a store gift card or gift certificate using a government-issued credit card.

(Sec. 116) Allows all airports experiencing the required level of boardings through charter and scheduled air service to be eligible for specified funds.

(Sec. 117) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used for retention bonuses for FAA employees without prior approval of the Assistant Secretary for Administration of DOT.

 (Sec. 118) Requires the FAA to block the display of an owner's or operator's aircraft registration number in the Aircraft Situational Display to Industry data program, upon the request of an owner or operator.

(Sec. 119) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill to pay the salaries and expenses of more than nine political or presidential FAA appointees.

(Sec. 119A) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill to increase fees for navigation products until the FAA provides Congress with a justification for all fees for aeronautical navigation products.

(Sec. 119B) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used to change weight restrictions or prior permission rules at Teterboro Airport in New Jersey.

(Sec. 119C) Requires the FAA to notify Congress prior to closing a regional operations center or reducing the services it provides.

Provides funding from the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for Administrative Expenses and Federal-Aid Highways.

(Most of DOT's budget is mandatory budget authority rather than discretionary budget authority. The mandatory budget authority is primarily in the form of contract authority derived from the Highway Trust Fund (HTF). Contract authority is the authority to obligate funds in advance of an appropriation Act.

Spending from the HTF is determined both by authorization bills and appropriations bills. Authorization bills provide contract authority for highway programs, and appropriations bills include obligation limitations that determine how much of the contract authority may be used in a given year.)

(Sec. 120) Specifies allocations and requirements for distributing obligation authority from the HTF among federal-aid highway programs.

(Sec. 121) Credits funds received by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics from the sale of data products to the Federal-Aid Highways account to reimburse the Bureau for expenses.

(Sec. 122) Requires DOT to: (1) provide an informal public notice and comment opportunity prior to waiving the Buy America requirement for federal-aid highway projects, and (2) report to Congress annually on waivers.

(Sec. 123) Requires DOT to notify Congress prior to providing credit assistance under the Transportation Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program, which provides credit to finance surface transportation projects of national and regional significance.

(Sec. 124) Permits specified contract authority from the HTF to be made available for the FHWA's administrative expenses.

(Sec. 125) Allows current truck weight limitations to remain in place on specified highways in Texas and Arkansas.

(Sec. 126) Permits states to repurpose certain highway project funding to be used within 50 miles of its original designation.

(Sec. 127) Includes Kansas under an agricultural exemption from federal truck trailer length requirements.

Provides funding from the HTF to the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) for: (1) Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs, and (2) Motor Carrier Safety Grants.

(Sec. 130) Subjects funds provided by this bill to specified terms and conditions included in prior appropriations Acts regarding Mexico-domiciled motor carriers. Repeals a provision in the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriation Act, 2002 that established an annual reporting requirement for the Office of Inspector General.

(Sec. 131) Requires the FMCSA to provide written notice of violations of certain safety procedures and regulations that could require an expedited safety audit or compliance review or a written response demonstrating corrective action.

(Sec. 132) Permits states that issued Commercial License Permits to individuals under age 18 prior to the FMCSA rule establishing a minimum age of 18, to continue to do so.

(Sec. 133) Prohibits Motor Carrier Safety Operations and Programs funds from being used to deny an application to renew a hazardous materials safety permit unless a carrier has the opportunity to present its own corrective actions and DOT determines the actions are insufficient.

(Sec. 134) Prohibits DOT from using funds to enforce provisions of the Hours of Service rule regarding the restart of a driver's 60- or 70-hour limit unless: (1) the study required by the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 demonstrates that the restart provisions resulted in statistically significant net safety benefits, and (2) the Inspector General certifies that the final report meets the statutory requirements.

(Sec. 135) Prohibits DOT from using funds to increase minimum financial responsibility levels for motor carriers until after reporting to Congress on the impact of raising minimum financial responsibility levels.

(Sec. 136) Provides that certain commercial motor carrier transportation regulations do not apply to the transportation of passengers by motor vehicles operated by youth or family camps that provide overnight accommodations and recreational or educational activities at fixed locations.

(Sec. 137) Extends the current 28 feet minimum requirement for a semitrailer or trailer operating in a truck tractor semitrailer- trailer combination to 33 feet.

Permits a state Department of Transportation, in addition to the existing authority for governors, to request an exemption for any segment of the National Highway Network, if it is not capable of safely accommodating a commercial motor vehicle at the 33-foot configuration.

Requires DOT to submit to Congress a study comparing crash data between 28 foot and 33 foot semitrailers or trailers operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer configuration.

Provides appropriations to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for Operations and Research.

Provides funding from the HTF to NHTSA for Operations and Research and Highway Traffic Safety Grants.

(Sec. 140) Provides additional funding to NHTSA for travel and related expenses associated with state management reviews and core competency development training for highway safety staff.

(Sec. 141) Exempts from the current fiscal year's obligation limitation any obligation authority that was made available in previous public laws.

(Sec. 142) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used for the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee.

Provides appropriations to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) for:

 Safety and Operations, Railroad Research and Development, the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program, Railroad Safety Grants, Operating Grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak), and Capital and Debt Service Grants to Amtrak. (Sec. 150) Permits the FRA to receive and use cash or spare parts to repair or replace damaged automated track inspection cars and equipment.

(Sec. 151) Limits overtime for Amtrak employees. Permits Amtrak to waive the limit for specific employees due to safety or operational efficiency reasons. Requires Amtrak to report to Congress on waivers granted and overtime payments incurred.

(Sec. 152) Permits specified unobligated funds to be used to assist class II and class III railroads with expenses related to applying for loans and loan guarantees under the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing Program.

(Sec. 153) Permits specified unobligated balances to be used for capital grants to Amtrak for shared use infrastructure on the Northeast Corridor.

Provides appropriations to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for Administrative Expenses, Transit Research, Technical Assistance and Training, Capital Investment Grants, and Grants to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.

Provides funding from the HTF to the FTA for Transit Formula Grants.

(Sec. 160) Exempts previously made transit obligations from limitations on obligations.

(Sec. 161) Permits FTA Fixed Guideway Capital Investment funds for projects specified in this bill or the accompanying report that are not obligated by September 30, 2020, to be used for other projects eligible to use the funds for the same purpose.

(Sec. 162) Permits the transfer of prior year appropriations from older accounts to be merged into new accounts with similar, current activities.

(Sec. 163) Provides an exemption from the charter bus regulations for portions of the state of Washington.

(Sec. 164) Provides that conditions imposed on federal public transportation assistance related to property originally built as a prototype having icebreaking capabilities are satisfied by the use of the property for: Arctic research; mapping the Arctic; collecting and analyzing data in the Arctic; supporting Arctic exploration, research, or development; or educational purposes or humanitarian relief efforts.

(Sec. 165) Provides that projects eligible for the pilot program for expedited project delivery established by the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21) are exempt from specified requirements that apply to fixed guideway capital investment grants.

(Sec. 166) Rescinds specified unobligated balances from funds provided for the bus and bus facilities program.

Provides appropriations to the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for Operations and Maintenance.

Provides appropriations for the Maritime Administration (MARAD) for the Maritime Security Program, Operations and Training, Assistance to Small Shipyards, Ship Disposal, and The Maritime Guaranteed Loan (Title XI) Program Account.

(Sec. 170) Permits MARAD to furnish utilities and services and make repairs in connection with any lease, contract, or occupancy involving government property under the control of MARAD. Permits payments received to be credited to the appropriations account charged with the cost and requires rental payments to be deposited into the Treasury.

Provides appropriations to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration for Operational Expenses, Hazardous Materials Safety, Pipeline Safety, and Emergency Preparedness Grants.

(Sec. 180) Requires DOT to evaluate and report to Congress on an alternative risk-based compliance regime for the siting of small-scale liquefaction facilities that generate and package liquefied natural gas for use as a fuel or delivery to consumers by non-pipeline modes of transportation.

Provides appropriations to the Office of Inspector General and the Surface Transportation Board.

(Sec. 190) Permits DOT to use funds for aircraft, motor vehicles, liability insurance, uniforms, or allowances, as authorized by law.

(Sec. 191) Permits fund provided by this bill to be used for the employment of temporary or intermittent experts and consultants if the rates do not exceed the rate for an Executive Level IV.

 (Sec. 192) Prohibits: (1) funds provided by this bill from being used for more than 110 DOT presidential or political appointees, and (2) any of the appointees from being assigned on temporary detail outside of DOT.

(Sec. 193) Prohibits recipients of funds provided by this bill from releasing certain personal information and photographs from a driver's license or motor vehicle record without the consent of the affected individual. Prohibits DOT from withholding funds if a state is not in compliance with this provision.

(Sec. 194) Permits funds received by specified DOT agencies from states or other private or public sources for training expenses to be credited to specified agency accounts.

(Sec. 195) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used for certain loans, loan guarantees, lines of credit, or grants unless DOT notifies Congress prior to announcing competitively selected projects.

Requires DOT to provide concurrent notification to Congress regarding any ''quick release'' of funds from the FHWA's Emergency Relief Program. (The program provides funding for the repair or reconstruction of federal-aid highways and roads on federal lands which have suffered serious damage as a result of natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause.)

(Sec. 196) Permits rebates, refunds, incentive payments, fees, and other funds received by DOT from travel management centers, charge card programs, the subleasing of building space, and miscellaneous sources to be credited to DOT appropriations and allocated to elements of DOT using fair and equitable criteria.

(Sec. 197) Permits DOT to use amounts recovered from improper payments to a third party contractor for expenses incurred in the recovery.

(Sec. 198) Requires reprogramming action notifications to be transmitted to and approved or denied solely by the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations.

(Sec. 199) Limits Surface Transportation Board fees for the filing of rate or practice complaints.

(Sec. 199A) Permits funds provided by this bill for modal administrations to be obligated to the Office of the Secretary for assessments or reimbursable agreements only if the funds provide a direct benefit to the modal administrations.

(Sec. 199B) Permits DOT to set uniform standards for transit benefits for agency transit passes and transit benefits.

(Sec. 199C) Prohibits the use of funds for any geographic, economic, or other hiring preference pilot program, regulation, or policy unless certain requirements are met related to availability of local labor, displacement of existing employees, and delays in transportation plans.

Department of Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2016 

Provides FY2016 appropriations for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

Provides appropriations for Management and Administration, including for Executive Offices and Administrative Support Offices.

Provides appropriations for Program Office Salaries and Expenses, including:

 Public and Indian Housing, Community Planning and Development, Housing, Policy Development and Research, Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, and the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes. Provides appropriations for Public and Indian Housing Programs, including:

 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance, the Public Housing Capital Fund, the Public Housing Operating Fund, the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative, the Family Self-Sufficiency program, Indian Block Grants, and the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund Program Account. Provides appropriations for Community Planning and Development, including:

 Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS, the Community Development Fund, the Community Development Loan Guarantees Program Account, the Home Investment Partnerships Program, the Self-Help and Assisted Home Ownership Opportunity Program, and Homeless Assistance Grants. Provides appropriations for Housing Programs, including:

 Project-Based Rental Assistance, Housing for the Elderly, Housing for Persons with Disabilities, Housing Counseling Assistance, Rental Housing Assistance, and the Manufactured Housing Standards Program. Provides appropriations and establishes limits on loan commitments for the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which includes the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Program Account and the General and Special Risk Program Account.

Provides appropriation and establishes limits on loan commitments for the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae).

Provides appropriations for Policy Development and Research for Research and Technology.

Provides appropriations for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity for Fair Housing Activities.

Provides appropriations to the Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, the Information Technology Fund, and the Office of Inspector General.

(Sec. 201) Requires 50% of overpayments due to refinancing of state projects under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 to be rescinded or, in the case of cash, remitted to the Treasury. Permits HUD to use up to 15% of the overpayments to provide project owners with incentives to refinance projects at lower interest rates.

(Sec. 202) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used to investigate or prosecute under the Fair Housing Act any lawful activities, including the filing or maintaining of a nonfrivolous legal action to achieve or prevent action by a government entity or a court.

(Sec. 203) Requires HUD to make certain adjustments to the formula for distributing Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) funds for certain jurisdictions in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and North Carolina.

(Sec. 204) Requires any grant, cooperative agreement, or other assistance made pursuant to this title to be made on a competitive basis and in accordance with the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989.

(Sec. 205) Permits specified funds to be used, without regard to limitations on administrative expenses, for: (1) legal services; and (2) payment for services and facilities of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Ginnie Mae, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), the Federal Financing Bank, Federal Reserve banks, Federal Home Loan banks, and any bank insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Act.

(Sec. 206) Prohibits HUD appropriations from being used for any program, project, or activity in excess of amounts included in the budget estimates submitted to Congress, unless otherwise provided by this bill or through reprogramming.

(Sec. 207) Permits HUD corporations and agencies subject to the Government Corporation Control Act to utilize funds and make contracts and commitments, without regard to fiscal year limitations and subject to specified restrictions, to implement the FY2016 budget.

(Sec. 208) Requires HUD to provide quarterly reports to Congress regarding uncommitted, unobligated, recaptured, and excess funds for each program and activity.

(Sec. 209) Provides that a public housing agency (PHA) or other entity that administers federal housing assistance for the Housing Authority of the county of Los Angeles, California; or Alaska, Iowa, or Mississippi is not required to include public housing residents or recipients of section 8 rental assistance (under the United States Housing Act of 1937) on the governing board.

Requires each PHA or entity that does not include these individuals on its board to establish an advisory board of at least six residents of public housing or recipients of section 8 assistance to provide advice on issues related to public housing and section 8.

(Sec. 210) Prohibits funds provided by this title from being use for an audit of Ginnie Mae that applies certain requirements of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990.

(Sec. 211) Permits HUD to transfer project-based assistance, debt, and use restrictions associated with a multifamily housing project from an obsolete or economically nonviable project to a viable project, subject to specified conditions.

(Sec. 212) Prohibits section 8 housing assistance from being provided to any individual who: (1) is a student at an institution of higher education; (2) under 24 years of age; (3) is not a veteran; (4) is unmarried; (5) does not have a dependent child; (6) does not have disabilities and was not receiving assistance as of November 30, 2005; and (7) is not otherwise individually eligible, or has parents who are not eligible, to receive assistance.

Provides that, for section 8 rental assistance eligibility purposes, any financial assistance (in excess of amounts received for tuition and fees) received under the Higher Education Act of 1965, from private sources, or an institution of higher education shall be considered income, except for a person over age 23 with dependent children.

(Sec. 213) Requires Native American Housing Block Grant funds to be distributed to the same Native Alaskans that received funds in FY2005.

(Sec. 214) Permits HUD to insure home equity conversion mortgages (HECMs or reverse mortgages) for elderly homeowners through FY2016, notwithstanding limitations on insurance authority included in the National Housing Act.

(Sec. 215) Requires HUD, in managing and disposing of any multifamily property that is owned or held by HUD, and during foreclosure on property with a contract for section 8 rental assistance payments or other federal programs, to maintain rental assistance payments attached to any dwelling units in the property. Permits HUD, if a property is not feasible for continued payments based on specified cost or environmental considerations, to: (1) contract with owners of other existing properties for project-based rental assistance payments, or (2) provide other rental assistance.

 (Sec. 216) Permits the use of Community Development Loan Guarantee funds to guarantee notes or other obligations issued by any state on behalf of its non-entitlement communities.

(Sec. 217) Permits certain public housing agencies that own and operate 400 or fewer public housing units to elect to be exempt from asset management requirements imposed by HUD in connection with the operating fund rule.

(Sec. 218) Prohibits HUD from using public housing funds to impose any requirement or guideline relating to asset management that restricts or limits the use of capital funds for central office costs, up to the limits established in the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998.

(Sec. 219) Prohibits the designation of a HUD official or employee as an allotment holder unless the Chief Financial Officer has determined that the employee has: (1) implemented an adequate system of funds control, and (2) received training in funds control procedures and directives.

(Sec. 220) Requires HUD to publish all Notices of Funding Availability for FY2016 and subsequent years on the Internet.

(Sec. 221) Requires HUD to: (1) pay attorney fees in program-related litigation from the individual program office and Office of General Counsel salaries and expenses appropriations, (2) include projected litigation costs for attorney fees as a separate line item in the budget request, and (3) submit a spending plan for review and approval by Congress prior to using any funds provided by this title for attorney fees.

(Sec. 222) Sets forth requirements for transferring and reprogramming funds within specified HUD Administrative Support Office and Program Office Salaries and Expenses accounts.

(Sec. 223) Provides that the HUD-administered Disaster Housing Assistance Program is a HUD program under the McKinney Act for income verification and matching purposes.

(Sec. 224) Requires HUD to take specified actions against owners receiving rental subsidies that do not maintain safe properties based on specified Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) scores.

(Sec. 225) Limits salaries and bonuses for public housing agency officials and employees.

(Sec. 226) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used for the HUD doctoral dissertation research grant program.

(Sec. 227) Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to extend the HOPE VI program through FY2016. (The program provides funds to renovate or demolish existing public housing and replace it with mixed-income housing.)

(Sec. 228) Requires HUD to notify Congress prior to announcing the recipients of grant awards.

(Sec. 229) Permits HUD to transfer specified funds from salaries and expenses accounts to the Information Technology Fund to support technology improvements.

(Sec. 230) Prohibits funds provided by this bill or receipts collected under FHA programs from being used to implement the Homeowners Armed with Knowledge (HAWK) program.

(Sec. 231) Prohibits the FHA, Ginnie Mae, or HUD from using funds provided by this bill to finance mortgages for properties that have been subject to eminent domain.

(Sec. 232) Prohibits the use of funds made available by this bill to terminate the status of a unit of general local government as a metropolitan city with respect to community development grants under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.

(Sec. 233) Amends the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to provide that the waiting period for the termination of tenancy under the HOME Investment Partnerships program is not required if the grounds for the termination or refusal to renew involve a direct threat to the safety of the tenants or employees of the housing, or an imminent and serious threat to the property (and the termination or refusal to renew is in accordance with the requirements of state or local law).

(Sec. 234) Prohibits funds provided by this title from being used to pay a bonus to an employee who is subject to administrative discipline, including suspension from work.

(Sec. 235) Amends the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012, to modify the requirements for the Rental Assistance Demonstration.

(Sec. 236) Allows public housing authorities to establish replacement reserves to address capital needs.

(Sec. 237) Increases the flexibility of public housing authorities to transfer funds between their capital and operating funds.

(Sec. 238) Amends the National Housing Act to permit HUD to establish exceptions to certain minimum property standards in order to address alternative water systems, including cisterns, which meet requirements of state and local building codes that ensure health and safety standards.

(Sec. 239) Expands the number of public housing authorities that may participate in the Moving-to-Work program. (Moving to Work is a demonstration program that provides HUD and local public housing authorities flexibility to test alternative policies for providing housing assistance through the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program and the public housing program.)

(Sec. 240) Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to permit triennial recertification of fixed-income families.

(Sec. 241) Extends the period of use of family unification vouchers by youth.

(Sec. 242) Requires HUD to establish a demonstration program for the performance-based financing of energy and water conservation improvements in assisted multifamily housing buildings to reduce utility costs.

(Sec. 243) Permits HUD to establish a demonstration program to provide incentives to public housing agencies that use capital funds, operating funds, grants, utility rebates, and other resources to reduce energy and/or water consumption.

(Sec. 244) Permits HUD to authorize the transfer of existing subsidies and liabilities from obsolete housing for persons with disabilities to housing that complies with specified requirements regarding housing for the disabled.

(Sec. 245) Rescinds specified unobligated balances from HUD programs.

(Sec. 246) Permits HUD to use funds provided for Homeless Assistance Grants to participate in the Performance Partnerships Pilots program.

(Sec. 247) Permits HUD to consolidate funds used to implement disaster recovery grants.

(Sec. 248) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used to require or enforce the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).

TITLE III--RELATED AGENCIES

Provides FY2016 appropriations to:

 the Access Board, the Federal Maritime Commission, the Amtrak Office of Inspector General, the National Transportation Safety Board, the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness. TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

Sets forth permissible, restricted, and prohibited used for funds provided by this and other appropriations Acts.

(Sec. 401) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used to compensate or pay the expenses of non-federal parties intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this bill.

(Sec. 402) Prohibits transfers of funds to other appropriations or obligations beyond the current fiscal year, unless expressly permitted in this bill.

(Sec. 403) Limits expenditures for consulting services to contracts where the expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public inspection, unless otherwise provided by law.

(Sec. 404) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill for employee training not specifically related to the performance of official duties.

(Sec. 405) Specifies procedures, restrictions, and reporting requirements for the reprogramming of funds provided by this bill.

(Sec. 406) Permits up to 50% of unobligated balances remaining at the end of FY2016 from appropriations for salaries and expenses to remain available through FY2017, subject to congressional approval and reprogramming guidelines.

(Sec. 407) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used for any project that seeks to use eminent domain unless eminent domain is employed only for a public use.

(Sec. 408) Requires agencies and departments funded by this bill to provide to Congress specified details regarding all sole-source contracts.

(Sec. 409) Prohibits the transfer of funds provided by this bill to a department, agency, or instrumentality of the U.S. government unless the transfer is pursuant to an appropriations Act.

(Sec. 410) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill to permanently replace an employee intent on returning to his or her previous occupation after completing military service.

(Sec. 411) Requires expenditures of funds provided by this bill to comply with the Buy American Act.

(Sec. 412) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being made available to any person or entity that has been convicted of violating the Buy American Act.

(Sec. 413) Prohibits funds provided by this bill from being used to purchase first class or premium airline travel in violation of specified federal travel regulations.

(Sec. 414) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill to approve a new foreign air carrier permit or exemption application if the approval would contravene U.S. law or specified provisions of the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport Agreement.

(Sec. 415) Prohibits the use of funds provided by this bill for the attendance of more than 50 U.S.-stationed employees at any single conference outside the United States unless Congress is notified in advance that attendance is important to the national interest.