Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2015

This bill amends the Energy Conservation and Production Act, the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 with respect to energy efficiency in buildings and appliances.

The Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy of the Department of Energy (DOE) shall conduct activities with respect to manufacturing energy efficiency.

Vehicle Innovation Act of 2015

DOE shall conduct research, development, engineering, demonstration, and commercial application programs regarding passenger as well as medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles and transit vehicles.

The Federal Power Act is amended with respect to cybersecurity threats, and requirements are prescribed for enhanced electric grid security as well as bulk-power system reliability.

The EPCA is amended regarding the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

The Natural Gas Act is amended with respect to liquefied natural gas exports.

DOE shall conduct programs with respect to electric grid storage and related grid matters.

The Department of Energy High-End Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 is replaced by the Exascale Computing Act of 2015, and DOE shall conduct research for development of two or more exascale computing machine architectures.

The bill amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and specified other Acts regarding:

 hydroelectric power, geothermal energy, marine hydrokinetic renewable energy, biomass, oil and gas, helium, specified critical minerals, coal, nuclear energy, 21st century energy workforce development, and recycled carbon fiber and nonrecycled mixed plastics. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other Acts are amended to:

 revise or prescribe requirements for loan and loan guarantee incentives for innovative technologies, and establish an e-prize competition or challenge pilot program to implement community and regional energy solutions to reduce energy costs in high-cost regions. DOE and the Department of the Interior shall establish a joint NEWS Office and Interagency Coordination Committee on the Nexus of Energy and Water for Sustainability.

Interior may develop a current and accurate multipurpose cadastre to support federal land management activities.

The Department of Energy Organization Act is amended to:

 direct the President to establish a Quadrennial Energy Review Task Force, rename the DOE Under Secretary for Science as the Under Secretary for Science and Energy, direct the DOE Energy Information Administration (EIA) to develop a plan to identify all oil inventories and other physical oil assets owned by the 50 largest traders of oil contracts, and create within the EIA a Financial Market Analysis Office. The bill establishes a Working Group on Energy Markets.

The EPCA is amended to repeal the mandates for various specified studies, reports, plans, and programs.

The bill establishes a National Park Service Critical Maintenance and Revitalization Conservation Fund, and revises requirements for the Land and Water Conservation Fund and the Historic Preservation Fund.