Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2016

(Sec. 2) This bill amends the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act to reauthorize through FY2018 the Sex Offender Management Assistance program and the Jessica Lunsford Address Verification Grant program.

(Sec. 3) Additionally, it reauthorizes appropriations through FY2018 for the U.S. Marshals Service to locate and apprehend sex offenders who violate sex offender registration requirements.

(Sec. 4) The bill amends the federal criminal code to modify the duties of probation and pretrial services officers to include, when directed by a court, supervision of a sex offender conditionally released from civil commitment subject to court-ordered compliance with a prescribed regimen of medical, psychiatric, or psychological treatment.

(Sec. 5) It establishes statutory rights for sexual assault survivors, including the right to: (1) receive a forensic medical examination at no cost; (2) have a sexual assault evidence collection kit (i.e., a rape kit) preserved for 20 years or the maximum applicable statute of limitations, whichever is shorter; (3) receive written notification prior to destruction or disposal of a rape kit; and (4) be informed of the rights and policies under this section.

Additionally, it makes statutory crime victims' rights applicable to sexual assault survivors.

 The term "sexual assault" means any nonconsensual sexual act prohibited by federal, state, or tribal law, including when a victim lacks capacity to consent.

Funds made available to the Crime Victims Fund under the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 must be used to carry out the requirements of this section, subject to specified exceptions.

(Sec. 6) The bill amends the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to authorize DOJ's Office of Justice Programs to make grants to states to develop sexual assault survivors' rights and policies and to disseminate written notice of such rights and policies to medical centers, hospitals, forensic examiners, sexual assault service providers, law enforcement agencies, and other state entities.

(Sec. 7) DOJ must establish a working group to develop, coordinate, and disseminate best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. The working group must report its findings and recommended actions.

(Sec. 8) It extends the statute of limitations for a minor victim of a federal sex offense to file a civil action to 10 years (currently 3 years) from the date such individual reaches age 18.